# Code Work
### Folder Structure
### follows the same strcuture as the blog itself
### Does it generate an html from markup?
### Is there a server involved or just a json file to handle everything
### What about SEO?
# potentially uses
### zpresent
The folder structure can be:01-intro >00-index.md01-intro.md02-justificationexample >		index.js		index.html		index.css	exercise >		index.js		index.html		index.css
### https://github.com/itechdom/zpresent
### https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9tPYCpuqoIrZFlvQWI0Y2o1eFU
# Effective ui
### 500 - 700 words
### Active voice
### Tasia wrote this
### my tips and my experience
# Brain Dump
BRAINSTORM Physically storing your data at friends’ makes more sensethan “in the cloud” for privacy concerns. Once deployed we want to documentthe inner workings and setting-up process of the network.Create a qa website where you submit your while code and people can look at itask people to join you in teaching (show the people from your major who can help you)share your notes to learn.when loading provide some entertainment (user created images).the idea that we have different approaches to learning a new subject.seperate representation from implementation.Take a document and turn a written document to mindmap or visual.Pull changes to the concepts and notify users.one alternative idea of branchit is to scan a book for relative information and tells you to read specific sections that will solve your problem.Scratch to reveal ur prize (saw it on easel js) Browser extension to look for courses when accessing a website. Put a lot of examples that the user can change to understand more. Other users can explain parts of the concept that seems to be vague by users who have the same major and age. Suggested and what people are currently learning (trends) Copy parts of a certain texts you read from the web and add them to your collection of notes, Example, I saw someone mentioning a point about why I use Backbone with Rails?concept has many sub-concpets (sub skills are more advanced level) and relationship can be optional (you don't have to master this skill)concepts has many examplesconcept has many exercises (practices)concept : description (the explanation of the concept)user has many notes linked to each concept (inner table)join a squad of the users with the same skills, finish a team task and win a badge learn from my project (uses code editor) …Donate for a person who taught you something, just tip him.Taking the users input on how long it takes them to finish a task(average), the calendar (per week) , come up with a plan if , if it satisfies the user, then we rank it up, if not we vote it down.Create different Mirrors for all branches (profiles). Users will get an "optimized content as close as possible to what they already know. People with history major get the history of the mathmatician who created a an equation. I am gonna use the profile of a Arab -> Scientific -> Math -> Programmer -> Java Map KHAN ACADEMY !SCRUM : Build a Java tutorial and challenge it to be the best Java tutorial ever or it could be the best JS tutorial in the world ! prototype version.Iron man style of concepts visualization.Things that requires the machine to take longer can tell the user to wait for a little bit (maybe a day till everything is ready)People get confused when you lower the level of complexity of your explanation.Training computer to know the attention span of users. Warming the user up in the beginning of each session. get the first example, don't understand, move to another one. Examples are tailored for the types of users.if a user doesn't understand something, give him the alternative explanation from another user.Suggest a branch to user while typing. Look at me coding this, screen videos // for Q&AThere are many ways to do something, if there's a feature in a language that can make things easier, we say so ...Examples generated by users (code snipets) http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Java_Programming: good resource for finding contenthttp://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Learning_Java: Java Tutorial, scroll down were levels are created.http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/index.html: Oracles tutorialDesign must be simple and clear. No multiple pages to get to the information. W3School succeeded because it doesn't make you think.Users contribute to the avatar too. Arrays are variables also, how do I stack them as concepts but link them as explanation? make everything a concept?go through the concepts and then unlock more concepts as you go through everything … Or concepts align according to your level?what's the line between an explanation and a concept? explanation is a weak concept that can stand by its own.how to implement a diff feature for comparison between languages?for example, java has all these features and compared to javascript, this is the difference ……combine classes and objects together, the writer of the course or language has to reuse the current concepts and does a diff to them?Map your skillsexplanations has levels , users will be notified once they reach a certain level that a concept is opened for them to view it. They can open an explanation if they want, but they are notified that this concept is a little beyond the basics.give +1 or +Number for every action a user makeTHE CODE EDITOR:Paste your code and get what references to look out in our website?use Ace, user pastes the code and then clicks analyze, we go through the code (search for foldings?), then get what's the current rules is being used to highlight? (look at the highlighting rules and then extend then hook to them to do something?)            look for the concept and link to it.Play game and generate code behind it. Use google glass to make users see content related to their knowledge. 
# Resources
### https://github.com/itechdom/itechdom-blog
### github repo
### https://docs.google.com/document/d/1higSrD0sSvcfIyBjfYqwRZ-P2718nQagjCho2LM1oKQ/edit?usp=sharing
### doc about topics
### I need to include some resources on how to blog and how to write
