* WORD: is a whole word till a comma or any other separator<div>word: is words till a space</div><div><br></div><div><div><br></div></div>
* <div>Given some data like the following:</div><div><br></div><div>one&nbsp;<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space:pre"><span style="white-space: normal;">	</span></span>first example</div><div>two<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space:pre"><span style="white-space: normal;">	</span></span>&nbsp;second example</div><div>three<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space:pre"><span style="white-space: normal;">	</span></span>&nbsp;third example</div><div>four&nbsp;<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space:pre"><span style="white-space: normal;">	</span></span>fourth example</div><div>suppose you want to change the data to make a dictionary for a Python program, with this result:</div><div><br></div><div>data = {</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'one': 'first example',</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'two': 'second example',</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'three': 'third example',</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; 'four': 'fourth example',</div><div>}</div><div><div>To do this, record a macro while changing the first line. Then, playback the macro to change each other line. When finished, manually insert the initial "data = {" line, and the final "}" line.</div><div><br></div><div>The following shows one way to record a suitable macro.</div><div><br></div><div>Put the cursor on the first line.</div><div>Type qd (the q starts recording; the d is the register where keys will be recorded).</div><div>Type the following command to change the first sequence of whitespace to "': '":</div><div>:s/\s\+/': ' (then press Enter)</div><div>Type the following to insert four spaces followed by "'" at the start of the line:</div><div>I &nbsp; &nbsp;' (then press Escape)</div><div>Type the following to append "'," to the line:</div><div>A', (then press Escape)</div><div>Type the following to move the cursor to the start of the line, then down to the next line:</div><div>0j</div><div>Type q to stop recording the macro.</div><div>The cursor should now be on the second line. Type @d to playback the macro once. That should change the second line, with the cursor finishing on the third line. Type 2@@ to finish. The 2 means that what follows is performed twice, and the @@ plays back the last used macro. Instead of 2@@, you could type @d or @@ twice.</div></div>
* <div>Running a macroEdit</div><div>Use this mapping as a convenient way to play a macro recorded to register q:</div><div><br></div><div>:nnoremap &lt;Space&gt; @q</div><div>Start recording keystrokes by typing qq.</div><div>End recording with q (first press Escape if you are in insert mode).</div><div>Play the recorded keystrokes by hitting space.</div><div>Suppose you have a macro which operates on the text in a single line. You can run the macro on each line in a visual selection in a single operation:</div><div><br></div><div>Visually select some lines (for example, type vip to select the current paragraph).</div><div>Type :normal @q to run the macro from register q on each line.</div>
